Hey there everyone and welcome
to the section of functions
in the udemy's Python course.
So in this course we are
learning a lot on Python and further
down we want to learn
and explore about functions.
Now functions are nothing
much more than a wrapper.
So they wrap your code
and make your code reusable.
But not only just reusable, it
has some more advantages of that.
And we're going to study each
of those advantages.
Not only we are going to study,
we do have a use case just like
a small story or a mini project.
And through that we are going
to learn about each individual
specification that why
the functions are being created.
Now functions are known with
variety of different names,
especially functions methods, you
can call them whatever you like,
the way how they are defined
exactly same but depends on where
you are defining.
Sometimes the naming might change
as you know programmers really
love to name things really
complex, although they are not
really complex under the hood
they does exactly the same kind
of a job.
So in this section we are
going to learn about them.
So let me take you up on to the
section and let me take you
onto the screen with the
screen, let me take you to the
screen with me so that we can
study.
Now not only that, we're going
to go ahead and write the code
along with me so that we
can actually truly understand
the meaning of all of them.
So I'll just arrange my
keyboard a little so that I
don't do much of the typos.
So we will have a simple
functions and just like that,
if I can write them better that
would be great functions.
There we go.
And let's start with pretty
much exploring about what
the functions are and how do
they work first of all.
So welcome to the topic
officially of the functions.
Now by the end of this whole
chapter and by the term chapter
means I mean to say the whole
section because we have a lot
of videos in this section as well.
You will be able to
understand the purpose and benefit
of the function.
Now this first video is, or probably
the first two videos are all
about understanding the purpose
and benefits of the function.
We will learn how we can create
a reusable and modular
code using the def keyword.
I'll show you that part as well.
And we want to improve
the readability, traceability,
maintainability with the function.
Now I know these are
really big words.
What do you mean by readability?
What do you mean by traceability
and maintainability?
We do have a separate example
for each one of These words
so that you truly understand.
Okay, this is why I'm
creating the function.
Otherwise your regular
code is working fine.
What's the need?
What's the problem?
Problem we are solving
with the functions.
We are going to focus on that.
After that we have break down
larger task into smaller steps using
well named function.
The well name here is a pretty
much big keyword here.
So make sure you pay
a huge attention on this.
Naming your variables as well
as your function is one
of the most important tasks.
This is written in the PEP
of Python as well and it's
in general good practice.
Your function should ideally
describe what it does
as descriptive as you want to be.
Make it really good so that
somebody don't have to ask anybody
or read the documentation.
The function should say it itself
that what we are going to be doing.
All right, I hope we are clear with
the agenda, what we are about to do.
And now we have a lot of tasks.
So we have this
task 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5.
So we have five of these tasks.
We'll try to do two tasks in this
video and three tasks we're going
to do in the next video itself.
Let's go ahead and study about.
So this is the task where we
are going to work on
reducing the code duplication.
So let me go ahead and move it
up here so that we can
actually understand this,
see it a little bit better.
So this is what we have.
I can expand this a little.
There we go.
Looks nice now.
So this is for reducing
the code duplication.
What do you mean
by even code duplication?
Sometimes the code that we
are writing needs to be utilized
at multiple places.
So why to write this code again
and again, Maybe we can wrap that up
in a function and wherever we need
we can actually call the same guy
because the functionality is same.
So here is a simple example
in front of us that we have.
You are managing a busy T
stall, which is a good stuff.
You receive many orders and want
to print each customer's name along
with the type of chai they ordered.
All right, pretty much
very much doable kind of a job.
And then it says task.
We have to do write a function
which says print order
and it prints the name and the type
of chai that the person wants.
Call it multiple times
for different customer.
All right, pretty good
example, pretty good one.
So let's go ahead
and work on with this.
This is the problem that
we are solving is reducing
the code duplication.
So let's go into function
create a New file.
And call this one as 01
and let's call this one as
duplication, because that's what
we are solving in this one.
Duplication Python.
All right, so what is
the task that we have to do?
First of all it's saying write
a function print order,
which accepts name and child types.
So let me tell you
how it's being done.
It's a super easy process,
don't you worry.
Every single function, whenever
you're writing, starts
with the keyword def, just
like we have if else for.
So it starts with def.
Then you simply go ahead
and write the function name.
So this is my function name
in this case print order.
And this is a valid function.
We can just put up a colon
and I'll come back to write the body
of the function that what
this function actually does.
I can just put a pass for
a moment here so that we
can come back later on.
Fill this up so that
syntax doesn't bother us.
Now whenever you need
to actually call this function, all
you have to do now is say
print order and execute this
function, just like we do.
The print just like this.
It is exactly same print was already
defined by the Python developers.
Print order is something
that we are defining.
I hope you got this.
Now we also have noticed that
in the print, sometimes we
actually put the strings and whole
lot of different things.
So this will print my name.
So print order can also
takes these parameters.
Notice here, this is there is a
different name when you actually
put the names here and when you
put the names here, although
they are the same thing, the
value is passed on directly like
this.
But there is a way
how we call them up.
And I'll show you what this is.
So what you accept here
is known as parameters.
Yep.
And when we actually pass up them
here, they are called as argument.
Yeah, Note them down
in your notebook.
It's important to be really clear
about what we call each things.
Programmers really love that.
So we're going to pass
parameters here.
Let's just say you accept two things.
The one is I accept names
and I also accept chaitype.
You can accept as many
parameters as you wish to have.
There is no stoppage.
You can also get no parameters.
You can get 3, 5,
whatever you wish to have.
Now after that we just simply
want to process this.
We will learn more about this.
Right now I just want to print it.
So we'll just say that, hey,
whatever the name you pass me up,
I'll just go ahead and use this.
So for this I have to say
this and say name ordered, ordered
and the chai type Chai type chai.
So this is the message
that I want to print.
Now the advantage of this
particular syntax is that I can
just pass on these parameter.
For example, just say aman
and he is ordering a chai of masala.
So this is masala.
But I can also duplicate this
and say that, hey, another
guy is ordering ginger.
And who is ordering Ginger?
Probably me.
And there's another guy who might
be ordering something else.
For example, let's just say jia
and she orders tulsi chai.
There we go.
And again, we don't have
to write this line again.
Again you don't get it much
because hey, it's just one line.
I could have done it here as well.
That's okay.
But it could be a long
printing statement.
I'll show you one more
example of this.
So we will first open this up
in a new in the integrated terminal
and then we are going to.
Let's open this again.
Too many terminals opened up.
Open an integrated terminal.
And now I can just go
ahead and say Python.
Let's go ahead and run 01
duplication and we can see
aman ordered masala chai Hitesh.
But now there is a problem.
The problem is simple that hey,
we don't want this message
like this name ordered chai.
Let's just say we want to add
maybe just an exclamation here
so we don't have to write
the exclamation three times.
This is something which is fun here.
And notice here, this is what
the reducing the code duplication.
We are not duplicating the code,
we just are appending this or
editing this at one place.
Now just by editing it one place I
can run the code again and I got
the exclamation every single place.
This is the advantage of it.
And I hope you understand
that we are reducing
the duplication of the code.
This piece of code, there could
be like 10 different lines.
There could be a call to a database,
There could be a lot of things
and those all lot of things
can be easily done at one place.
And whenever you want to use it,
you can just go ahead and pass
on different arguments.
Remember this is argument,
this is parameter.
So you can pass on different
arguments and can just get
the value a lot of time.
It just saves the time.
So this is one of the example
that we have now let's go ahead
and see another example here.
We'll do two examples in this one
which will help you to Understand
more about the functions and as
I say, the more you write the code,
the better it is for you.
All right, so let's go
ahead and get this one up.
So what the next problem
statement say to us?
All right, hope this is
much more visible now.
There we go.
So next one is splitting
the complex task.
All right, so let's just
see what the problem says.
The problem statement says
you are creating a monthly report
for a cafe's sale.
Pretty much doable.
Instead of putting all logic
in one place, break it down.
Task and write a function,
generate report that calls
fetch sales, filter valid orders
and summarize the data.
All right, so this time we are
creating different methods and each
method is doing some complex task.
And that is also one of the key thing
about the functions which
is splitting the complex task.
So we are splitting that.
How do we generate the report?
We'll keep this somewhere, safe.
How do we fetch the sales?
We keep it separate and filter valid.
So all of these things are
definitely reusable, but they are
performing each of the task.
And maybe you're working in a team.
So each team member is doing
a different complex task.
Let's go ahead and try to work
on this complex task as well.
Let's close this one and see
how that can be done.
Let's create a new file 02 and we
will say complex python, not js.
All right, so the first part
of my problem is to fetch the sales.
I don't know how to fetch
the sales as of now, but I
can mimic the functions.
I can just go ahead and call
the fetch underscore
sales and assume that
it does complex tasks.
Maybe you provide some CSV file
into it and all of that.
We'll do that later on.
Right now I just want to print
a message that okay, sales
report is generated or it
is fetching the sales data.
So we'll just say
fetching the sales data all.
Right.
It has done its job.
This is one function.
What could be another
function that we can use?
Another function is
filter valid orders all.
Right, so this one says
my job is filter valid sales.
This is what I do, how I do it.
We will learn about those
things later on in the project,
but right now we're just
focusing on the function.
So I'll just go ahead and say print
and this is going
to go ahead and say filtering
valid valid sales data.
All right, and what's the third
thing that we have to do?
Summarize the data.
All right, no problem,
summarize the data.
So this summarize the data.
All it does is pretty simple.
Oops, my bad.
Summarize the data.
Syntax mistake.
And there we go.
And we are going to go ahead and say
this is summarizing sales data.
Hopefully that's the sales data.
But I hope you can see that how we
have splitted the complex task
into different this could be one
line, this could be hundred lines,
or probably thousand lines.
There could be more.
Usually it's not thousand lines,
but I'm exaggerating to make sure
that you are understanding.
And finally we can do
is generate report.
When the report is generating, we
have to call all of these functions.
So it's also pretty doable.
It's pretty simple.
Let's just say I am going to call
this one as generate report report.
And in this method all we do is
first of all we fetch the sales.
So there we go, sales data is done.
How complex this is, I don't really
care, I am just calling the methods
just like I've been doing so far.
Filter valid sales.
There we go, done that task.
And now after that we
summarize the data.
So there we go.
And finally we just go
ahead and print the ready,
report ready message.
So I'll just say print.
I will say report is ready.
There we go.
This is how it's literally
easy to work with that.
Let's go ahead and execute this
as well so that we get the idea.
So we'll say Python 3 this time
we'll print the complex PI and we
forgot to call the function.
If you're not going
to call the function, this
is how it will behave.
So this all task is being done.
But remember you have never
called this particular method.
You have called other methods,
but these methods are called
when this method is called.
Pretty good catch that
we have done here.
So all I have to do is once all
of this is done then we have
to say what's the name?
Generate report.
Call this method just
like you call print.
And now these are all definitions.
So as soon as you use the def,
that means you are providing
a definition of function.
This is where you use the function.
All right, let's go
ahead and run this.
So notice here it says
fetching the sales data.
Filtering the valid sales data,
summarizing the sales data
and then says report is ready.
So there we go.
Pretty good, pretty fun exercise.
I hope you have enjoyed this.
So this is the part where
we have the basics done.
We have three more exercises
to be done, but let's go ahead
and do them in the next video.